## Introduction to Make Utility in C 

The `make` utility automatically determines which pieces of a large program need to be recompiled, and issues 
Commands to recompile them.

`make` is not limited to C programming, you can use it with any programming language whose compiler can be run
with a shell command. It also not limited to programs. you can use it to describe any task where some files must be updated automatically from others whener the others change.

## Preparing and Running Make

To prepare to use make, tou must write a file called the makefile that describes the relationships among files in your program and provides commands for updating each file. 

In a C program, typically, the executable file is udated from object files, which are in turn make by compiling source files.

Once a suitable makefile exists, each time you change some source files, this simple shell command: 

```
make

```

suffices to perform all necessary recompilations. The `make` program uses the makefile database and the last-modification times of the files to decide which of the files need to be updated. 

## An Introduction to Makefiles

You need a file called a makefile to tell `make` what to do. the makefile tells `make` how to compile and link a program.

### Rules of a makefile

A simple makefile consists of "rules" with the following shape: 

```
target...: prerequisites ...
	recipe
	...
	...
```

A target is usually the name of a file that is generated by a program; examples of targets are; 
executable or object files. A target can also be the name of an action to be carried out, such as `clean'

A `prerequisite` is a file that is used as input to create the target. A target often depends on several files.

A `recipe` is an action thaht `make` carries out. A recipe may have more than one command, either on the same line or each on its own line. 

**Note**: You need to put a tab character at the beginning of every recipe line!

Usually a recipe is in a rule with prerequisites and serves to create a target file in any off the prerequisites changed. The rule that specifies a recipe for the target need not have prerequisites.

A `rule`, then, expains how and when to remake certain files which are the targets of the particular rule.


